# Storyteller Dialogue System

Conversational AI: MSc project to design and build a conversational story-teller dialogue system.

## Abstract 
<dl>
  <i> Storytelling is the interactive communication between a storyteller and one or more
active listeners. It provides an interactive way to share experiences with others, for
instance to tell our friends about our weekend or a movie plot. For children, storytelling
has also an educational impact, as it increases exposure to both social interaction and
conversation development. Still, systems that are specialised in storytelling are not
common.
For this MSc project, I developed and evaluated a storyteller system that tells a story
interactively. On top of the system, an engagement strategy called Feedback Prompt is
developed, evaluated and compared with a baseline strategy. The evaluation focuses on
how the strategies affect the engagement in active listeners. The evaluation is carried
out through a Telegram bot used as a web interface to allow users to interact with
it. During the evaluation, the user connects to the Telegram interface and starts an
interaction with the system. The user receives the story increment by increment and
their behaviour contributes to how the story unfolds. To handle user questions, the
system includes Machine Reading Comprehension capabilities. The hypothesis is that
the Feedback Prompt strategy positively affects the engagement of the listener increasing
the interaction.<i>
  </d1>

---

## Libraries
The system is developed and tested using Python 3.7. Some of the libraries required are:
- DM `nltk`
- NLG
- NLU `rasa, tensorflow, re`
- bot `telepot, flask, logging, argparser`
- fsm `transitions`
- web interface

## How To

#### Set up the Telegram interface
- Create a Telegram bot following the steps given by the BotFather bot (you can follow this tutorial: https://core.telegram.org/bots#6-botfather) 
- Modify the `credentials.py` file with your bot name and bot token
#### Set up your local machine as server
- Registered to Ngrok from `https://ngrok.com/`
- Go to https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started to download the ngrok client
- Unzip the folder
- From the unzipped folder, run the command `./ngrok authtoken xxxxxxxxxxxxxxas` that appears for you on that link
- Run `./ngrok http 5130`
- If you are using the Telegram web interface, replace the `bot.setWebhook("https://******.ngrok.io/chat")` in `bot_telegram.py` with the https url generated by ngrok (leave the suffix `/chat` at the end)
- If you are using the Alana interface, please follow the Alana instruction on how to send requests to Alana.
#### Set up the application
- Create a virtual environment with Python 3.7
- Install the requirements in `requirements.txt`
- Select which engagement strategy to use: currently the system uses the baseline strategy. To use the Feedback Prompt strategy please comment `line 102` of `bot_telegram.py` and uncomment `line 103` of `bot_telegram.py`
#### Run the application
- Run `bot_telegram.py` to run the system using the Telegram web interface

---

The story used is the Squirrel story from the PersonaBank corpus [PersonaBank corpus](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1708.09082.pdf)
